In this course we mix methods to investigate lands that connect Middlebury College and Vermont towns. We will study the natural and human histories of land and investigate relationships between Middlebury College and local human and natural communities. We ground these themes at field sites along a transect from the Champlain Valley to the Green Mountains where college and non-college communities overlap in space and time. Students explore questions from multi-disciplinary perspectives, learn to interpret and integrate different kinds of evidence, including texts, images, maps, and direct observations, share their work with peers to help contextualize field excursions, and produce a short presentation for the First Year Symposium.   

The course is organized in three parts. The first part focuses on the development of the campus as something both insulated and connected to the town. The second part focuses on the development of college-owned lands with respect to the longer natural and human history of Middlebury and evaluate the potential contribution of college lands for a plan to conserve the biological and rural heritage of the Town of Middlebury. The third part will focus on the development of a multimedia presentation on our findings for the First Year Symposium.  

For the first two parts of the course, you will complete three short (< 500-1000 words) writing assignments that aim to introduce you to different types of college writing, including interpretations of images, maps, graphics, and scholarly books and articles. The third part of the course will focus on developing a multimedia presentation (pairing words and pictures) with your peers that shares our findings from the course with the public.   
